Today I want to walk you through
the pipeline editor of a lira.
And as you can see here,
we are running a lira in communities
in the IBM communities ancient.
But you can run a lira in any
environment in docker on your laptop or
any communities environment.
So let's have a look at what we have here.
So I will cover two things which
aren't that important to me first, but
then I will directly dive into
the pipeline editor because a lira has
a couple of more functions
than only the pipeline editor.
So here we see, one thing.
This is get extension.
So let's actually go into a Git
repository, which I have cloned.
And then you see here you are actually
seeing the untracked files and
you can stage your changes and
you can commit and push and pull here.
You can pull and
here you can push and all that stuff.
Okay, then another thing is you have
here TOC, Table of content extension.
So let's just create a new notebook And
then create a markdown cell.
And let's say here a section one.
And then let's create
another markdown set and
say Subject to Subsection one.
Section one.
Okay?
So if you know how to go to the T O C.
You see here that you have
actually that you see here.
And also you can automatically
create a number.
That's quite handy.
Then another thing we have here code
snippets and of course you can import
code snippet libraries for
different programming languages.
And it then comes very handy to
just drag and drop the coat,
snap snippets in to the notebook and
without a necessity to actually search for
the code snippets then what we see
here is configuration of run times.
I will come back to that later and also
here a configuration of runtime images.
Just keep in mind That you
have those two Taps here and
then of course the last one
is the extension manager.
Okay, so
now let's start with the pipeline editor.
The pipeline editor is
actually pretty cool.
So you can just create a new pipeline and
the pipeline you can then
push to an execution engine.
So either you have local execution or you
can use Q flow or airflow at the moment.
And if you use the generic
pipeline editor,
you can push to local execution
to cuba and airflow But
we have here two specific to
the execution engine pipeline editors.
And that actually allows for
using pipeline.
Ancient specific components.
So let me just illustrate that.
So you have here on the left hand side,
a list of generic components which are for
example, jupiter notebooks or
python scripts or
our scripts which you can drag and
drop to the canvas.
But now here we are starting to
add cube flow specific components.
Let's have a look what we have here.
So that's a notebook that's of
course same as we have here.
But then we have here, for
example a filter component.
Of course, it will have some more
components in the near future.
But let's have a look
at our flow pipeline.
It it also we have a couple
of more components already.
So best operator, email operator
to send emails, HTTP operator and
spark SQL operator where you can
submit SQL statements against sparks.
Also here, spark submit where you
can submit spark applications
against the spark cluster and
then a slack connector or something.
Okay, but now let's go back to
the generic pipeline editor.
So as you are used to you can drag and
drop notebooks, python, scripts and
scripts on top of the canvas and then
later push it to the execution engine.
And the cool thing is if you
have a component library
then of course a lot of
work is being done for you.
Okay, so let's consider, for example,
here in the input section,
a postgres square connector and
why this is red is because
you have to tell a lira
which runtime image it has
to sign to this component.
That means this component here is
running in its own container and
this container of course
needs a runtime image and
you can actually configure
those random images here.
Okay, so
this is the anaconda image you see here.
That's the image name,
pull policy and so on.
And of course you can also
connect to other registries.
So let's go back to the editor and
what you see here is the parameters to
that component are automatically
generated in this UI here.
So this is a post rest connector.
That means it pulls data from
a post grad school database and
of course you need the host name,
the database name, the user,
the passport support,
the actual SQL statement.
You want to run against the post
grad school database And
also some temporary directory and
here also the name of the output CSB five.
The component has to start the fire too.
And then of course you can
attach other components of for
example if you want to pull data
from a Postgres database and
you want to upload this
directly to cloud objects door.
It's very easy.
So you just then specify here
the properties of the cloud object store.
So access key, secret access key,
endpoint, bucket name and so on and so on.
And the cool thing is it works
with IBM cloud object store.
It works with amazon S three and
with mini mini yo.
And every S three compliant
cloud object store.
Yeah, that's more or less it for now.
So if you now doctor to
click on one component,
the underlying trumpeter notebook
opens and you see here that's
designed by contract configuration
of the interface of the components.
So you have different
environment variable names and
those are actually set and
injected through a lira.
So if you go back to the pipeline, you see
here all those parameters are extracted
for you have to set those and they
are then injected into this notebook so
all those parameters set and
then they are actually used.
So it's pretty straightforward,
you just connect to the database and
you execute SQL query against the database
and then you just write data frame
you obtain from query to Assisi fire, I
mean That's work off around 5-10 minutes.
If you search for the code snippets and
put it together but that way,
first of all it's tested, it's like
opinionated and on the other hand,
if you just drag and drop it,
you don't have to code no, you still have
direct access to the underlying source
code, you can modify it if you like.
But if you don't you have just a pure
no code experience here Okay, and
it's fully open source and the really,
really cool thing here is if we say
run it will fail of course because all
the parameters are not set, but just to
illustrate, you can have a local execution
but we can just send it to communities.
So too pure for Pipelines, it gets
packaged up and sent to communities and
also this cube flu instance, he is
running the IBM cloud to see that here
at the europe but
it can run anywhere of course and
you directly get the lock,
so every execution stage,
which respect by one single notebook
is running inside the container.
Those containers, of course
running in a pot in kubernetes and
do directly get the standard out
streamed and of course here we have
an exception because we didn't set
variables but anyway this is how it works.
In addition,
if you don't want to use the low code,
no quote style, you can still chest use
a pure python based script or notebook.
So the library, by the way, this library
is called claimed component library for
a I machine learning and data science,
no component library for
a I imagine learning each day to sign so
I will just cover everything.
You can use this library
also without a lira and
without UI the only thing to use
a component is such a call here so
you have Ipython and then you address
the component which is a notebook and
then you can pass all
the available parameters and
the way how this is done is
basically through this loop.
I have already externalized this from
the notebook but just to illustrate here,
we are just passing all
the environment variables which
are sorry the arguments which have
been passed to the notebook and
then we just use the exact function of
python to set this as an environment.
Sorry as a variable.
Okay.
And then that's basically also you can
use this library from anywhere and
then finally that's just one thing I want
to mention, we have created C three,
this is claimed component compiler
which takes such a notebook and
creates a cube flow pipeline component for
you and those get uploaded to ML exchange.
So that means you can create your
components by simply creating a trumpeter
notebook and you see three sort
of claimed component compiler,
which creates a huge component out of you.
This you can upload two ML exchange and
then you have it in a repository where
you can also search for the components.
And later on you can use those
components in any cube flow environment.
So in pure cube flow or in the IBM Watson
pipeline stool or in the library itself.
Okay, so
I hope this makes it a bit more clear.
And if you have any questions, just post
them to the forum or the comment section.
Thanks a lot.
Bye.